Thank you all for being here today.
It really means a lot that people took
time out of their lives to come see
my talk, which is really exciting.
So I'm Emma Bostian.
I'm a software engineer at LogMeIn.
I am from Upstate New York
originally born and raised there.
After I graduated from Santa College in
Albany, I moved down to Austin, Texas for
three years when I worked
at IBM on a design team for
the quantum computing site,
which was super fun, and that was kind of
like my first intro to design systems.
But at LogMeIn I actually I work on
building design systems as well.
And so this is something I'm really
excited to be sharing with you today.
I do a lot of miscellanous things in my
spare time, like podcasting, blogging,
all the things that everyone
is getting into right now.
So I am really looking forward to this.
It's a little bit of an experiment,
because we're gonna be building a system
together, but everyone's is gonna look
a little bit different by the end of this,
which is gonna be really neat to see and
I hope that you all will share it in the
chat maybe after this workshop is done.
So we're gonna start out learning about
design systems like what they are,
why they're important and
how to build them.
Then I'm gonna teach you
some design foundations and
I think as engineers this is
really hard to learn design.
I'm not an expert,
I am an engineer by nature.
But I think going over some color theory
and typography will be super fun.
Once we get that foundational knowledge
we're gonna switch into Figma
which is designed tool.
We're actually gonna design
components together.
We're gonna turn them
into coded components.
We're gonna animate those components and
then we'll document them and
publish that on natla phi.
And then we'll just wrap up by
talking about some fun people and
tools in the industry that you can
reference for more information.
I do talk quickly.
So if I'm too fast, just raise your
hand and I will try to slow down.
And if you have any questions,
I'm gonna try to pause and thereafter,
some of those sections and take questions.
But if anything is unclear,
just stop me and we'll address it.
So today we're gonna talk
high-level design systems.
This is a new field and it hasn't really
been standardized in the industry yet.
So this is my take on how I
would build a design system but
it's not gonna go into the nitty gritty.
So, we're not gonna talk about how to
actually deploy like a build process
because a lot of companies have different
standards, different procedures and
it wouldn't make a ton of sense for
me to discuss those intricacies.
But we will talk about how to actually
build components and design components and
all of that.
Just a couple of housekeeping things,
so I have a repository on GitHub,
I just made this public.
Let me bring that up here.
You can go find it at
emmabostian/fem-design-systems.
It is public now.
My reading is very complete and
there are links to the documentation.
So I put together this website
which matches my slides because I'm
super extra in how to do that.
And these are also my speaker notes.
So this is what I'm
gonna be looking at and
reading through, and if you ever
get lost feel free to just jump in.
I also have branches I've
created on GitHub at the end of
each of these big sections
that you can jump to.
But we will be referencing this from
time to time just to grab some larger
code snippets.
So I would just recommend
keeping this open.
Okay.
So, Let's talk about design systems.
So the internet was not originally
intended to host large scale social and
enterprise applications.
It was really created as a way
to share data across the world.
And a lot of the terminology
that we've used and
we've coined throughout time
as it's written printed books.
So if we think about pagination,
bookmarking,
web pages, these all have
references to printed media.
But we don't develop web pages
as like full web pages anymore.
And when we think about building
our sites in terms of pages,
we kind of subconsciously throw
reusability out the window.
So, instead of thinking in terms of pages,
we should start thinking
in terms of components.
We're seeing a lot of popular JavaScript
frameworks in libraries are a do-this,
even native web components.
So we really need to shift our
mindset to think of things modularly.
So a design system is really going
to allow us to create this modular
experience.